Dr. Ashley Mae Conard
Health Futures
Microsoft Research
Cambridge, MA 02142, USA
Senior Researcher, Biomedical Computing Group
LinkedIn: linkedin.com/in/ashleymaeconard
Research theme
My general research theme is to build expert-centered interpretable methods and platforms to enable more effective decisionmaking in biomedical and clinical settings. After all, I believe for methods to be useful, they must be used.
Research interests
Temporal and multi-omics integration, rare disease research, interpretable statistical & Bayesian models, large language models,
time-series models, human-in-the-loop computation, gene regulatory networks, visualization and perturbation, reproducibility,
high-performance computing, game theory, protein binding prediction
Education
2022 Biostatistics Department, Brown University, RI, USA.
Post-doctoral researcher
Advisor: Dr. Lorin Crawford
2022 Center for Computational and Molecular Biology, Brown University, RI, USA.
Ph.D. Computer Science, Computational Biology
Thesis: It’s about time: developing interpretable models to uncover regulatory mechanisms from temporal and multi-omics data
Advisors: Dr. Lorin Crawford, Dr. Erica Larschan, Dr. Charles Lawrence
2019 Computer Science, Brown University RI, USA.
M.S. in Computer Science
Thesis: Identification of subclonal drivers and copy-number variants from bulk and single-cell DNA
sequencing of tumors [link]
Advisor: Dr. Benjamin Raphael
2014 DePauw University, IN, USA.
B.A. in Computer Science, Biochemistry specialization, minor French, magna cum laude
Professional Research and Computing Experience
2023–current Health Futures, Microsoft Research,
Cambridge, MA, USA.
Senior researcher Build novel methods and pipelines to improve rare disease solve and diagnostic rates
in partnership with the Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, and the Center for Population Genomics,
Australia [link].
1
2022 Biostatistics Department, Brown University,
Providence, RI, USA.
Post-doctoral researcher Develop interpretable Bayesian machine learning and statistical models from
multi-omics data.
2019–2022 Center for Computational and Molecular Biology (CCMB), Brown University,
Providence, RI, USA.
Ph.D. Computer Science, Computational Biology Developed interpretable Bayesian machine learning
models for longitudinal multi-omic studies and platforms to understand gene regulation. I formulated novel research directions, perform experiment design, method development, result and wet-lab
validation.
Spring 2022 Phenome Health, Deloitte,
San Francisco, CA, USA.
Computational Biologist, Data Infrastructure, Machine Learning. Developing scientific and business
strategy for healthcare and life science start-up under Dr. Leroy Hood.
Fall 2021 Google Cloud,
Palo Alto, CA, USA.
Researcher and Creator. Developing new computational biology frameworks in collaboration with
several biotech companies and Google Cloud.
Summer 2021 Biomedical Computing, Health Futures, Microsoft Research,
Redmond, WA, USA.
Research Intern. Developed three interpretable Bayesian inference models leveraging temporal and
multi-omic data to uncover dysregulation in breast cancer, ALS, and Parkinson’s disease.
Fall 2018 Department of Health, RI, USA.
Machine Learning Scholar. Designed predictive model to address a need in Rhode Island’s hospital
systems. The hope is to form state legislation based on findings.
2015–2017 Department of Computer Science, Princeton University, Brown University, MA, RI, USA.
Graduate Student. Designed deep learning model to improve DNA single-cell sequencing data for
large region mutation (copy-number) inference. Developed pipeline to identify subclonal driver mutations in bulk sequencing cancer tumor samples across nine cancer types.
2014–2015 Department of Computer Science, Universite´ Libre de Bruxelles, Belgium.
Game Theory Researcher. Created a method to uncover binding specificities in SH3 protein domain
using machine learning, cooperative game theory, and structural bioinformatics.
Summer 2013, Massachusetts Institute of Technology Lincoln Laboratory, MA, USA.
2014 Bioinformatics Researcher. Developed a fast protein analysis algorithm using Dynamic Distributed
Dimensional Data Model (by Dr. Jeremy Kepner), merging sparse algebra, associative and distributed
arrays, and triplestore/NoSQL databases (Accumulo).
Summer 2013 Department of Chemistry, DePauw University, IN, USA.
Chemical Inventory Database Creator – Senior Project. Designed, built, and deployed database (Parse
Platform) and front end (HTML, CSS). ∼2000 users for many departments [link].
January 2013 Center for Structural Biology, Vanderbilt University, TN, USA.
Visiting Scholar. Assisted in development of new structure prediction algorithms in RosettaLigand
program (simulations and design of macromolecules) and proposed new machine learning techniques
in Biochemical Library (BCL) drug discovery project.
2011–2012 Technology Associate of Alumni Office, DePauw University, IN, USA.
Student Worker. Provided information technology solutions for faculty and staff. Built video presentations for award lectures and conducted interviews for alumni networking.
2
Summer 2012 Eli Lilly and Company (Elanco), IN, USA.
Quality Control Researcher. Designed, tested and implemented two software programs. One for deviation documentation and the other instrument control. The former went GLOBAL for Elanco plants
in Nov. 2012, the latter runs automatically daily. Learned how to use Gas Chromatography, Atomic
Absorption Spectroscopy, and High Performance Liquid Chromatography.
Spring 2012 Department of Computer Science, Universite´ Libre de Bruxelles, Belgium.
Visiting Scholar. Analyzed the role of core amino acids in a FYN SH3 protein domain using structural
bioinformatics and game theory techniques.
2010–2011 Information Technology Help Desk, Information Technology Associates
Program, DePauw University, IN, USA.
Technology Associate. Project manager for team of ten that implemented technology solutions for
students and faculty, including revamping websites and software troubleshooting.
Summer 2011 JDS Uniphase, TX, NY, USA.
Technology Sales and Marketing Associate. Researched, tested, taught, and marketed communication
software, services, and solutions for Verizon, AT&T.
Summer 2011 Department of Biology, Science Research Fellowship Program, DePauw University, IN, USA.
Behavioral Ecology Researcher. Developed procedures to test and analyze different advertisement and
aggressive calling patterns of Acris blanchardi. Tested parachuting behavior of Hyla chrysosclis, Acris
blanchardi, and Anaxyrus fowleri.
Fall 2010 Department of Chemistry, Science Research Fellowship Program, DePauw University, IN, USA.
Inorganic Chemistry Researcher. Synthesized ionogel and determined chemical and physical properties to use as a catalyst for biosensing, optics, and electrolytes.
Summer 2008 Eli Lilly and Company, IN, USA.
Inorganic Chemistry Researcher. Assessed hydrolytic stability of cyclopropanecarboxylic acid esters
as potential prodrugs. Synthesized an acyclovir prodrug and worked with a ghrelin O-acyltransferase
inhibitor to evaluate use as a potential therapeutic target to treat obesity and diabetes.
Honors and Awards
International and National
2014–2019 ◦ National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship Program (NSF GRFP)
2014–2015 ◦ Fulbright Research Scholar, Machine Learning and Game Theory, Belgium
2015 ◦ Belgian American Education Foundation Fellow, Machine Learning and Game Theory, Belgium
2014 ◦ Science Mathematics and Research for Transformation (SMART). Declined due to NSF GRFP.
2010–2014 ◦ Grace Hopper International Celebration of Women in Computing: Poster Award 2013, (scholarships:
NSF 2010, Xerox 2012, Intel 2013)
2011 ◦ Ohio Celebration of Women in Computing (OCWiC), scholarship to attend
◦ National Society of Collegiate Scholars (NSCS)
2010 ◦ Science National Honor Society
2009 ◦ Indiana High School Athletic Association Role Model: gave speeches to promote drug-free living
3
DePauw University
2014 ◦ Old Gold Award: academic excellence and high achievement
2012 ◦ Internships in Francophone Europe: fellowship to study in Belgium and conduct research
2010–2014 ◦ Dean’s List (every semester)
◦ Information Technology Associates Program (ITAP) - selective honors program
◦ Science Research Fellows (SRF) - selective honors program
◦ Honors Societies: Mortar Board, Chi Alpha Sigma, Phi Eta Sigma, Order of Omega, National
Society for Collegiate Scholars, Alpha Lambda Delta
Publications
Co-first author: !, corresponding author: ‡.
2023 H. Xi, L. Crawford‡, A. Conard‡. Multioviz: an interactive platform for in silico perturbation and
interrogation of gene regulatory networks. BMC Bioinformatics. (Under review).
V. Sriram, L. A. Conard, I Rosenberg, D. Kim, A. Hall
‡. Accelerating precision medicine: a proposed framework for large-scale multiomic data integrity, interoperability, analysis, and collaboration
in biomedical discovery. PLOS Digital Health. (In submission).
A. Mastrianni, H. Twede, A. Sarcevic, J. Wander, C. Austin-Tse, S. Saponas, H. Rehm, A. Conard‡,
A. Hall
‡. AI-Enhanced Sensemaking: Exploring the Design of a Generative AI-Based Assistant to
Support Whole Genome Sequencing Analysis. CHI. (In submission).
A. Conard‡, I. Nathoo, M. Tsarli, C. Lawrence, E. Larschan. XvsY: pipeline to identify shared and
distinct genomic signatures from multiple expression and protein-DNA interaction information over
time. Cell Press STAR Protocols. (In submission).
N. D’Silva!, K. McCullar
!, A. Conard, T. Blackwater, R. Azanchi, U. Heberlein, E. Larschan,
K. Kaun‡. Neuromolecular and behavioral adaptation associated with alcohol deprivation.
Genetics. (Under review).
2022 A. Conard!, A. DenAdel
!, L. Crawford‡. A spectrum of explainable and interpretable machine learning approaches for genomic studies. WIREs Computational Statistics.
A. Conard‡. It’s About Time: Interpretable Methods and Associated Interactive Platforms to Uncover Regulatory Mechanisms from Temporal and Multi-Omics Data. Brown University Ph.D. Thesis,
Computer Science and Computational Biology.
A. M. Bronikowski, R. P. Meisel, P. R. Biga, J. R. Walters, J. E. Mank, E. Larschan, G. S. Wilkinson,
N. Valenzuela, A. Conard, J. P. de Magalhaes, J. Duan, A. E. Elias, T. Gamble, R. M. Graze, K.
E. Gribble, J. A. Kreiling, and N. C. Riddle‡. Sex-specific aging in animals: Perspective and future
directions. Aging Cell.
2021 A. Conard‡, N. Goodman, Y. Hu, N. Perrimon, R. Singh, C. Lawrence‡, E. Larschan‡. TIMEOR: a
web-based tool to uncover regulatory mechanisms from temporal and multi-omics data.
NAR Web Server Issue.
M. Ray!, A. Conard!, E. Larschan‡. The CLAMP transcription factor regulates sex-specific splicing
in the Drosophila early embryo. eLife.
2020 M. Tsarli, A. Conard, E. Larschan‡. The Drosophila CLAMP protein regulates neurogenesis in the
optic lobe. Genetics. (Under review).
4
2019 A. Conard‡, B. Raphael
‡. Identification of subclonal drivers and copy-number variants from bulk and
single-cell DNA sequencing of tumors. Brown University Department of Computer Science.
2016 B. Cuypers, A. Jacobsen, B. Siranosian, K. Schwahn, A. Conard, N. Aben, M. Hassan, N. Fatima,
S. Hermans, M. Woghiren, P. Meysman, F. Rahman, A. Jigisha. Highlights from the ISCB Student
Council Symposia in 2016. F1000Research. 2016, 5(ISCB Comm J):2852
2015 A. Conard, S. Dodson, J. Kepner
‡, D. Ricke‡. Using a Big Data Database to Identify Pathogens in
Protein Data Space, arXiv:1501.05546.
Skills and Experience
Programming Bash, C++, C, CSS, HTML, Julia, Java, MATLAB, pMatlab, Markdown, Python, R, RShiny, SQL
Languages
Dev. Tools/
Environments
Azure Dev Ops, Arduino IDE, BlueJ, Conda, Docker, Eclipse, Jupyter, Putty, RStudio, Terminal,
Visual Studio Code, Xcode
Big Data Tools Apache Acculumo, Apache Hadoop, Azure, MPI, OpenMP, Slurm
Programs/
Platforms
ArcGIS, Arduino, Audacity, Business Objects, Cytoscape, Chimera, Discoverant, Dreamweaver, Final Cut Pro, GIMP, Google Cloud Platform, Illustrator, Infopath, MakerBot, Raspberry Pie, Raven,
RosettaLigand
Foreign
Languages
French (fluent), Spanish (fluent), Dutch (beginner), Portuguese (beginner)
Selected Presentations
Invited Talks
September 2023 A spectrum of explainable and interpretable machine learning approaches for genomic studies
ACM Conference on Bioinformatics, Comp. Biology, & Health Informatics (ACM BCB), TX, USA.
November 2020 BIOGRINN: Bayesian model to interpret and predict genomics features from multi-omics data
International Society for Bayesian Analysis (ISBA), Virtual.
November 2020 TIMEOR: a web-based tool to uncover temporal regulatory mechanisms from multi-omics data
Biological Data Science Conference, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, Virtual.
March 2020 TIMEOR: web-based tool to uncover regulatory mechanisms from temporal & multi-omics data
Adelman-Bender-Cole-Kuroda-Larschan Joint Lab Meeting, Harvard University, MA, USA.
January 2020 Trajectory Inference and Mechanism Exploration with Omics Data in R. A computational
method to uncover regulatory mechanisms of transcription factors during development
Perrimon Lab Group Meeting (collaborator), Harvard University, MA, USA.
October 2019 Trajectory Inference and Mechanism Exploration with Omics Data in R. Its about time!
Epigenomics Club, Brown University, RI, USA.
August 2019 Trajectory Inference and Mechanism Exploration with Omics Data in R - A method to uncover
regulatory mechanisms over time
Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, MA, USA.
August 2019 Time course model of alcoholism in neural development of Drosophila melanogaster
Kaun Lab Group Meeting, Brown University, RI, USA.
June 2019 Trajectory Inference and Mechanism Exploration with Omics Data in R - A method to analyze
how transcription factors influence development
Boston Area Drosophila Meeting, Brown University, RI, USA. Flash talk.
5
June 2019 Trajectory Inference and Mechanism Exploration with Omics Data in R - A method to analyze
how transcription factors influence development
Adelman-Bender-Cole-Kuroda-Larschan Joint Lab Meeting, Harvard University, MA, USA.
March 2019 KO or OK? A pipeline to analyze how the CLAMP transcription factors influences development
Epigenomics Club, Brown University, RI, USA.
October 2019 Student of Vision Abie Award
Grace Hopper Celebration, FL, USA. Moderator and panelist.
October 2018 Student of Vision Abie Award
Grace Hopper Celebration, TX, USA. Moderator and panelist.
October 2016 Subclonal Driver Events Across 9 Cancer Types
IB2 Student Day, Universite´ Libre de Bruxelles, Belgium.
August 2015 Applying for National and International Awards
DePauw University, IN, USA.
December 2014 Determining winning SH3 coalition using Game Theory
Benelux Bioinformatics Conference, Belgium.
June 2015 Determining the winning SH3 Coalition with Game Theory
Regional Student Group, Belgium.
December 2014 Determining winning SH3 coalition using Game Theory
Benelux Bioinformatics Conference, Belgium.
May 2014 Chemical Inventory Database System and School-Wide Integration
DePauw University, IN, USA. Presentation and poster [link].
January 2014 Essential Residues within Fyn SH3 Protein Domain using Game Theory
Indiana Women in Computing Conference (InWIC), IN, USA. Won 1st prize [link].
January 2014 No Fomo - User Experience Challenge
Microsoft International Imagine Cup, DePauw University, IN. Honorable mention [link].
May 2012 Coalitional Game Theory and Feature Selection to Describe the Dependencies Between Amino
Acids Within the SH3 FYN Protein Domain
Chicago Women in Computing (ChiWIC), IL, USA.
May 2012 Synergistic & Antagonistic Dependencies Analyzed via Game Theory in FYN Protein Domain
(Presented in French and English). Thesis in French. Universite´ Libre de Bruxelles, Belgium.
June 2011 Censorship between China and Google
Ohio Celebration of Women in Computing (OCWiC), OH, USA.
Posters
March 2021 XvsY: tool to identify shared and distinct genomic signatures from multiple expression and
protein-DNA interaction information over time
Annual Drosophila Meeting, Virtual.
April 2020 TIMEOR: web-based tool to uncover regulatory mechanisms from temporal & multi-omics data
The Allied Genetics Conference (TAGC), Virtual.
November 2019 TIMEOR: method to uncover regulatory mechanisms from temporal and multi-omics data
Fulbright Association Conference, DC, USA.
May 2019 Method characterize how transcription factors influence development with RNA & ChIP-seq
RECOMB, DC, USA.
6
March 2019 Method characterize how transcription factors influence development with RNA & ChIP-seq
Annual Drosophila Meeting, TX, USA.
November 2017 Determining the winning SH3 coalition: how cooperative game theory reveals the importance of
domain residues in peptide binding
Fulbright Association Conference, DC, USA.
October 2016 Coalitional Game Theory and Feature Selection to Describe the Dependencies Between Amino
Acids Within the SH3 FYN Protein Domain
Grace Hopper Celebration, TX, USA.
July 2015 Determining the winning SH3 Coalition with Game Theory
International Society for Molecular Biology (ISMB), Ireland. Won RSCB PDB Prize [link].
January 2015 Using a Big Data Database to Identify Pathogens in Protein Data Space
New England Database Day, MA, USA.
January 2014 Creation and Implementation of D4M Algorithm for Protein Analysis
Indiana Women in Computing Conference (InWIC), IN, USA. Won 1st prize [link].
October 2013 Creation and Implementation of D4M Algorithm for Protein Analysis
OurCS Conference, Carnegie Mellon, PA, USA. Won 1st prize [link].
September 2011 Male-Male Cricket Frog Aggressive Behavior
DePauw University Summer Research, Science Research Fellow, IN, USA. [link].
September 2011 Parachuting Arboreal Frogs
DePauw University Summer Research, Science Research Fellow, IN, USA. [link].
Student Mentorship
2023 Angela Mastrianni, graduate student, ‘AI-Enhanced Sensemaking: Exploring the Design of a Generative AI-Based Assistant to Support Whole Genome Sequencing Analysis’
Shadi Zabad, graduate student, ‘Leveraging Genome-wide Complex Trait Association Signals to Inform Variant Prioritization in Rare Disease’
2021 Helen Xi, undergraduate student, ‘Multi-omic Visualization of Interpretable Biological Neural
Neworks’
Lee Ding, undergraduate student, ‘Efficient Multi-Trait Learning with Biologically Annotated Neural
Networks’
2020 Dominique Pablito, graduate student, ‘Uncovering temporal sex-specific differences across multiple
species’
Isaac Nathoo, undergraduate student, ‘Regulation of alternate sex specific splicing by DNA binding protein CLAMP during early embryonic development determines transcriptome heterogeneity between sexes’
2019 Nathaniel Goodman, undergraduate student, ‘TIMEOR: a web-based tool to uncover regulatory mechanisms from temporal and multi-omics data’
7
Academic Service and Memberships
Journal and ◦ IEEE HPEC, 2023
conference
reviewer
◦ Intelligent Systems for Molecular Biology/European Conference on Computational Biology
(ISMB/ECCB), 2021 (assisted advisor)
◦ AISTATS, 2020 (assisted advisor)
◦ Nature Communications, 2019 (assisted advisor)
◦ Genes and Development, 2019 (assisted advisor)
Conference ◦ Grace Hopper Celebration, 2015–present
service ◦ Fulbright Conference, 2019, 2020, 2021
◦ International Society of Computational Biology (ISCB) Student Council Symposium, 2016–2018
◦ Indiana Women in Computing Conference (InWIC), 2014
Memberships ◦ Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE), 2020–present
◦ International Society for Computational Biology (ISCB), 2015–2016, 2020–present
◦ Association for Computing Machinery (ACM), 2010, 2020–present
◦ American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS), 2017–present
◦ Fulbright Association, 2016–present
◦ AnitaB.org, 2012–present
◦ International Society for Bayesian Analysis (ISBA), 2021–2023
◦ Institute for Mathematical and Statistical Innovation (IMSI), 2021–2023
◦ Genetics Society for America (GSA), 2019–2023
◦ Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics (SIAM), 2020–2023
◦ American Society for Biochemistry and Molecular Biology (ASBMB), 2018–2023
◦ National Science Policy Network (NSPN), 2020–2023
Ph.D. program ◦ CCMB Presenter Series founder, CCMB, Brown University, 2019–2022
service ◦ Graduate student recruiting, CCMB, Brown University, 2018–2022
Teaching Experience
Spring 2021 Applied Math 2080, Inference in Genomics and Molecular Biology: graduate and undergraduate
course Brown University.
Assisted in course content creation for Fall 2021.
Spring 2019 Applied Math 0650, Statistical Inference II: undergraduate course at Brown University.
Lecture on causation and estimation calculations.
Summer 2013,
2014
Arduino Programming: student workshop for Google’s Computer Science Summer Institute. Created, recruited, implemented, and led Arduino workshop for more than 40 students at Google’s Computer Science Summer Institute [link].
2012–2014 Biology 325, Bioinformatics Teacher’s Assistant: undergraduate course at DePauw University.
Devised laboratory sessions, homework, helped grade, and tutored students.
2011–2014 Tutor: Created personalized lesson plans to tutor students (10 overall) in classes in the departments of
Chemistry, Computer Science, Biology, French and Spanish, at DePauw University.
8
Software
Fall 2023 Multioviz [link]
Multioviz is a platform for the interactive assessment of gene regulatory networks.
Implementation details: Bash, R, R Shiny
Spring 2021 time2splice [link]
time2splice is a method to find temporal and sex-specific alternative splicing from multi-omics data.
Implementation details: Bash, Python, R
Fall 2020 TIMEOR (Trajectory Inference and Mechanism Exploration using Omics data in R) [link]
TIMEOR is a web server and Dockerized command line tool to identify gene regulatory networks and
assign mechanism from temporal and multi-omics data.
Implementation details: Bash, Python, R, R Shiny
Summer 2014 PRIPS (Pathogen Rapid ID from Protein Sequences) (property of MIT Lincoln Laboratory)
A fast protein analysis algorithm, using Dynamic Distributed Dimensional Data Model (D4M-by Dr.
Jeremy Kepner), merging triplestore/NoSQL databases (Accumulo) with associative and distributed
array representations of proteomic sequences for fast genomic big data analysis using sparse linear
algebra. Our approach efficiently extracts statistical patterns to relate protein sequences, with the end
goal of rapidly identifing novel pathogens.
Implementation details: Matlab
Spring 2014 Chemical Inventory Database [description link], (property of DePauw [login link])
Web-based inventory management system used in many academic departments, mainly chemistry.
Users log in and use a phone to scan barcodes for automatic item entry. The application uses the Parse
Platform as a relational database to house inventory for DePauw University. This system has been
updated by the maintainer Dr. Dave Roberts.
Implementation details: HTML, CSS, Parse Platform
2013, 2014 Arduino-CSSI (Computer Science Summer Institute at Google) [link]
Set of Arduino workshop modules and Fritzing diagrams to teach students how to program as part of
the Google Computer Science Summer Institute (CSSI).
Implementation details: C
Summer 2012 Instrument Control (property of Eli Lilly and Elanco)
Online internal system to monitor product batch data. Batch data is extracted from Eli Lilly’s Data
Mart and Data Warehouse databases and then visualized for the researcher (such as potency, and
solubility fluctuations). This system continues to be run automatically daily, enabling employees to
easily inspect and verify internal processes, saving significant money and time.
Implementation details: SQL, Discoverant, and Business objects
Summer 2012 Deviation Identification and Reporting (property of Eli Lilly and Elanco)
Online internal system for deviation reporting with automatic alerts, excel exports, and editing options
to identify malfunctioning manufacturing products and machines across the plant. These reports were
previously on paper. This system was adopted globally for all Elanco plants in November, 2012.
Implementation details: SharePoint, Discoverant, and Business objects
January 2011 INcitizenconnect [link]
Website to keep updated with local legislation in the 2011 Indiana General Assembly.
Implementation details: Wordpress
9
Leadership and Activities
Professional Organizations and Positions
2022–present Models, Inference, and Algorithms (MIA) Steering Committee. Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard’s MIA is a prestigious talk and workshop series that supports learning and collaboration across
the interface of biology and medicine with mathematics, statistics, machine learning, and computer
science [link].
2015–present Student of Vision Abie Award Judge and Co-creator. International award honors students committed to creating a future where the people who envision and build technology mirror the people and
societies for which they build. Winners receive a $7000 prize and the chance to go to Grace Hopper [link].
2004–present D-Day Ambassador to France. Selected to represent U.S. for D-Day Commemoration, and to return
every 4 years until the 100th anniversary of World War II. International School of Indiana.
2018–2020 Fulbright Board of Directors. Young professional board member [link], [profile]. Fulbright Assoc.
2018 Science Writer. Wrote two articles on scientific advances targeted at advanced high school students. Infobase Learning, Science News Today.
2017–2018 Princeton Citizen Scientists member. Helped grow a group of scientists interested in policy, mobilizing at Princeton and beyond to advocate for science. Princeton University.
2016–2018 International Society of Computational Biology (ISCB) Student Symposium Finance Chair. Led
a team to build new strategies bringing four new and important sponsors. We gave >20 scholarships
to support international and domestic travel to the conference. ISCB
2015–2017 AnitaB.org Board of Trustees. Student board member in program and strategies committees. Focused efforts to build the Student of Vision Awards (an Abie Award), BRAID, Top Companies, and
ABI.local. AnitaB.org [link, see Board Emeritus]
February 2015 US-EU-NATO Affairs Delegate. Fulbright grantee to engage in EU Seminar in international diplomacy. Fulbright and EU Commission.
2008–2011 Venture Crew President (2010). Vice President in 2009. Venture Crew 1121. Boy Scouts of America.
DePauw University Organizations and Positions
2014 Mortar Board Vice President. Helped establish structure for new society focused on achievement in
scholarship, leadership, and service. DePauw University.
2011–2014 DePauw Organic Farm Co-founder. Founded and built business plan for ∼2-acre farm, where 25%
of produce is given to local Greencastle Indiana food pantries. DePauw University [link].
2011–2013 Robotics Club Co-founder & Vice President. Students are provided with free tools to make whatever
they wish. We visit local schools for outreach days. DePauw University.
January 2011 DePauw Environmental Policy Program. Testified scientific bills, Indiana Statehouse, created website [link]. DePauw University.
2010–2014 University Athletics. Soccer (2010-2012) and Track (2013-2014). DePauw University.
Service and Outreach
November 2019 Lifetime Achievement Award to President of Croatia Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic´, NPR’s Melissa
Block, and Architect James S. Polshek. Presented award with Fulbright Board of Directors.
Fulbright Association [link].
10
November 2019 Fulbright Talks host (similar to TEDx). Fulbright Association [link].
January 2019 Fulbright Prize to German Chancellor Angela Merkel. Presented award with Fulbright Board of
Directors. Fulbright Association [link] [photo].
October 2019 Advocating the “Value and Impact of the Fulbright Program” with U.S. Senator Chris Van
Hollen (D-MD). Fulbright Association [link].
June 2018 Raspberry Pi robotics outreach. Taught ∼20 students in Roanoke VA. They got to keep their Raspberry Pi. Virginia Tech Philosophy and Physical Computing Workshop [link].
October 2016 Presented Top Companies award (audience of ∼15,000). AnitaB.org [link].
October 2013 IEEE High Performance Computing Conference (HPEC). Served as usher and attended. IEEE.
2012–2014 STARS Computing Corps. Student-led regional outreach group to broaden participation in computing. DePauw University.
November 2012 National Chemistry Week High School Competition. Organized, and executed a video and essay
competition for high school students to come to the Children’s Museum of Indianapolis for a day of
chemistry, fun and to view undergraduate institutions. American Chemical Society.
Summer 2010 Service Trip to Costa Rica. Created a septic tank for ‘Estacio´n de las tortugas’, worked on pineapple
plantation, and helped record nesting behavior of Leather Back and Green Sea Turtles hatchlings. Servicio en Las Ame´ricas Program, DePauw University.
Media
November 2021 Women and People of Color Still Experience Difficulty Advancing in Technology - I assisted
Grace Hopper Celebration co-Founder and former CEO of AnitaB.org, Telle Whitney in report [link].
July 2019 Center for Computational and Molecular Biology Ph.D. Program - Brown University [link].
July 2019 Remembering D-Day - Fulbright Association [link].
January 2019 Alumni Profile: Ashley Mae Conard - Fulbright Association [link].
May 2017 An Insider’s Look at Student Board Membership - AnitaB.org [link].
October 2016 Grace Hopper Interview as AnitaB.org Board Member - The Cube [link].
October 2016 Women Who Reign: Ashley Conard - ReigningIt [link].
November 2015 Meet Ashley Conard, AnitaB.org’s New Student Board Member - AnitaB.org [link].
October 2015 Putting women and computer science in every field - SiliconANGLE [link].
October 2015 Grace Hopper Interview as AnitaB.org Board Member - The Cube [link].
October 2015 Ashley Conard ’14 Will Conduct Computational Biology Research in Belgium with Fulbright
Award - DePauw University [link].
October 2015 All of the Above - DePauw University [link].
11
References
Academic External
Professor Lorin Crawford (Ph.D. advisor) Dr. Telle Whitney
Senior Researcher Microsoft Research Co-founder and former CEO of AnitaB.org
RGSS Assistant Professor of Biostatistics and the Grace Hopper Celebration
Center for Computational Molecular Biology (CCMB) tel: 408-505-1083
Brown University School of Public Health email: tellew@gmail.com
121 S Main St, Box G-S121-7
Providence, RI 02912
tel: 401-863-9634
email: lorin crawford@brown.edu
Professor Erica Larschan (Ph.D. advisor) Dr. Scott Saponas
Richard and Edna Salomon Associate Prof. of Biology Biomedical Computing Senior Researcher, Microsoft Research
Department of Molecular Biology, Cellular Biology
and Biochemistry
Health Futures
Microsoft Research
Center for Computational Molecular Biology (CCMB) Microsoft Corporation
Brown University email: ssaponas@microsoft.com
185 Meeting Street, Room 368
Providence, RI 02912
tel: 401-863-1070
email: erica larschan@brown.edu
Professor Charles Lawrence (Ph.D. advisor) DeDe Long
Professor of Applied Mathematics Board of Directors President Fulbright Association
Department of Applied Math Former Director of Office of International Exchange
Center for Computational Molecular Biology (CCMB) University of Arkansas
Brown University email: dslong@uark.edu
182 George Street, Room 204
Providence, RI 02912
tel: 401-863-1479
Skype ID: chip lawrence
email: chip lawrence@brown.edu
Last updated on November 19, 2023.